Add API page for util functions (#2863)
deepset-ai/haystack: docs/_src/api/api/utils.md

def print_documents(results: dict, max_text_len: Optional[int] = None, print_name: bool = True, print_meta: bool = False)
```

Utility that prints a compressed representation of the documents returned by a pipeline.

**Arguments**:

- `max_text_lenght`: shorten the document's content to a maximum number of chars. if None, does not cut.
- `print_name`: whether to print the document's name (from the metadata) or not.
- `print_meta`: whether to print the document's metadata or not.

<a id="export_utils.print_questions"></a>

#### print\_questions

```python
def print_questions(results: dict)
```

Utility to print the output of a question generating pipeline in a readable format.

<a id="export_utils.export_answers_to_csv"></a>

#### export\_answers\_to\_csv

```python
def export_answers_to_csv(agg_results: list, output_file)
```

Exports answers coming from finder.get_answers() to a CSV file

**Arguments**:

- `agg_results`: list of predictions coming from finder.get_answers()
- `output_file`: filename of output file

**Returns**:

None

<a id="export_utils.convert_labels_to_squad"></a>

#### convert\_labels\_to\_squad

```python
def convert_labels_to_squad(labels_file: str)
```

> Convert the export from the labeling UI to SQuAD format for training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert the export from the labeling UI to the SQuAD format for training.
```

**Arguments**:

> - `labels_file`: path for export file from the labeling tool

Reviewer: Does it have to be the file exported from the labelling tool or can it be any file with labels?

I'd change to: The path to the file containing labels.

<a id="preprocessing"></a>

# Module preprocessing

<a id="preprocessing.convert_files_to_docs"></a>

#### convert\_files\_to\_docs

```python
def convert_files_to_docs(dir_path: str, clean_func: Optional[Callable] = None, split_paragraphs: bool = False, encoding: Optional[str] = None, id_hash_keys: Optional[List[str]] = None) -> List[Document]
```

Convert all files(.txt, .pdf, .docx) in the sub-directories of the given path to Documents that can be written to a

Document Store.

**Arguments**:

> - `dir_path`: path for the documents to be written to the DocumentStore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dir_path`: Specifies the path for the Documents to be written to the Document Store.
```
Should it actually be: the path to the directory containing the documents?

> - `clean_func`: a custom cleaning function that gets applied to each doc (input: str, output:str)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `clean_func`: A custom cleaning function that gets applied to each Document (input: str, output: str).
```

> - `split_paragraphs`: split text in paragraphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `split_paragraphs`: Splits text in paragraphs. Possible values: `True`, `False`.
```
Can we add some more info? How does it split the paragraps?

> - `encoding`: character encoding to use when converting pdf documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `encoding`: Character encoding to use when converting pdf documents.
```
Should we add possible values here?

> - `id_hash_keys`: Generate the document id from a custom list of strings that refer to the document's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id_hash_keys`: Generate the document ID from a custom list of strings that refer to the document's
```

> attributes. If you want to ensure you don't have duplicate documents in your DocumentStore but texts are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attributes. If you want to ensure you don't have duplicate documents in your Document Store but texts are
```

> not unique, you can modify the metadata and pass e.g. `"meta"` to this field (e.g. [`"content"`, `"meta"`]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not unique, you can modify the metadata and pass, for example, `"meta"` to this field ([`"content"`, `"meta"`]).
```

> In this case the id will be generated by using the content and the defined metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do that, the document ID is generated by using the content and the defined metadata.
```

<a id="preprocessing.tika_convert_files_to_docs"></a>

#### tika\_convert\_files\_to\_docs

```python
def tika_convert_files_to_docs(dir_path: str, clean_func: Optional[Callable] = None, split_paragraphs: bool = False, merge_short: bool = True, merge_lowercase: bool = True, id_hash_keys: Optional[List[str]] = None) -> List[Document]
```

> Convert all files(.txt, .pdf) in the sub-directories of the given path to Documents that can be written to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert all files (.txt, .pdf) in the sub-directories of the given path to Documents that can be written to a
```

Document Store.

**Arguments**:

> - `merge_lowercase`: allow conversion of merged paragraph to lowercase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `merge_lowercase`: Convert merged paragraphs to lowercase.
```
Do you think it's clear what "merged paragraphs" are?

> - `merge_short`: allow merging of short paragraphs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `merge_short`: Allow merging of short paragraphs.
```

> - `dir_path`: path for the documents to be written to the DocumentStore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `dir_path`: The path for the documents to be written to the Document Store.
```
Again, should it be: the path to the directory containing documents...?

> - `clean_func`: a custom cleaning function that gets applied to each doc (input: str, output:str)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `clean_func`: A custom cleaning function that gets applied to each document (input: str, output: str).
```

> - `split_paragraphs`: split text in paragraphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `split_paragraphs`: Splits text in paragraphs.
```

Should we add more info how it splits the text?

> - `id_hash_keys`: Generate the document id from a custom list of strings that refer to the document's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id_hash_keys`: Generate the document ID from a custom list of strings that refer to the document's
```

> attributes. If you want to ensure you don't have duplicate documents in your DocumentStore but texts are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attributes. To ensure you don't have duplicate documents in your Document Store if texts are
```

> not unique, you can modify the metadata and pass e.g. `"meta"` to this field (e.g. [`"content"`, `"meta"`]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
not unique, you can modify the metadata and pass, for example, `"meta"` to this field ([`"content"`, `"meta"`]).
```

> In this case the id will be generated by using the content and the defined metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do that, the document ID is generated by using the content and the defined metadata.
```

<a id="squad_data"></a>

# Module squad\_data

<a id="squad_data.SquadData"></a>

## SquadData

```python
class SquadData()
```

This class is designed to manipulate data that is in SQuAD format

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.__init__"></a>

#### SquadData.\_\_init\_\_

```python
def __init__(squad_data)
```

**Arguments**:

> - `squad_data`: SQuAD format data, either as a dict with a `data` key, or just a list of SQuAD documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `squad_data`: SQuAD format data, either as a dictionary with a `data` key, or just a list of SQuAD documents.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.merge_from_file"></a>

#### SquadData.merge\_from\_file

```python
def merge_from_file(filename: str)
```

> Merge the contents of a SQuAD format json file with the data stored in this object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge the contents of a JSON file in the SQuAD format with the data stored in this object.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.merge"></a>

#### SquadData.merge

```python
def merge(new_data: List)
```

> Merge data in SQuAD format with the data stored in this object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Merge data in SQuAD format with the data stored in this object.
```

**Arguments**:

> - `new_data`: A list of SQuAD document data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `new_data`: A list of SQuAD document data.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.from_file"></a>

#### SquadData.from\_file

```python
@classmethod
def from_file(cls, filename: str)
```

> Create a SquadData object by providing the name of a SQuAD format json file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a SquadData object by providing the name of a JSON file in the SQuAD format.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.save"></a>

#### SquadData.save

```python
def save(filename: str)
```

> Write the data stored in this object to a json file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write the data stored in this object to a JSON file.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.to_document_objs"></a>

#### SquadData.to\_document\_objs

```python
def to_document_objs()
```

Export all paragraphs stored in this object to haystack.Document objects.

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.to_label_objs"></a>

#### SquadData.to\_label\_objs

```python
def to_label_objs()
```

Export all labels stored in this object to haystack.Label objects.

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.to_df"></a>

#### SquadData.to\_df

```python
@staticmethod
def to_df(data)
```

> Convert a list of SQuAD document dictionaries into a pandas dataframe (each row is one annotation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert a list of SQuAD document dictionaries into a pandas dataframe (each row is one annotation).
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.count"></a>

#### SquadData.count

```python
def count(unit="questions")
```

> Count the samples in the data. Choose from unit = "paragraphs", "questions", "answers", "no_answers", "span_answers"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Count the samples in the data. Choose a unit: "paragraphs", "questions", "answers", "no_answers", "span_answers".
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.df_to_data"></a>

#### SquadData.df\_to\_data

```python
@classmethod
def df_to_data(cls, df)
```

> Convert a dataframe into SQuAD format data (list of SQuAD document dictionaries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Convert a data frame into the SQuAD format data (list of SQuAD document dictionaries).
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.sample_questions"></a>

#### SquadData.sample\_questions

```python
def sample_questions(n)
```

> Return a sample of n questions in SQuAD format (list of SQuAD document dictionaries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return a sample of n questions in the SQuAD format (a list of SQuAD document dictionaries)
```

> Note, that if the same question is asked on multiple different passages, this fn treats that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if the same question is asked on multiple different passages, this function treats that
```

> as a single question

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as a single question.
```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.get_all_paragraphs"></a>

#### SquadData.get\_all\_paragraphs

```python
def get_all_paragraphs()
```

Return all paragraph strings.

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.get_all_questions"></a>

#### SquadData.get\_all\_questions

```python
def get_all_questions()
```

> Return all question strings. Note that if the same question appears for different paragraphs, it will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return all question strings. Note that if the same question appears for different paragraphs, this function returns it multiple times.
```

> returned multiple times by this fn

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

<a id="squad_data.SquadData.get_all_document_titles"></a>

#### SquadData.get\_all\_document\_titles

```python
def get_all_document_titles()
```

> Return all document title strings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return all document title strings.
```
